FedKit: Enabling Cross-Platform Federated Learning for Android and iOS

Despite of the promises, FL has largely been limited to lab experiments
and use by large companies.  Thus, at the FedCampus project, we built a
privacy-preserving data platform to connect around 100 real users' daily
health data.  However, to deploy FL in such real-world setting, we faced
challenging requirements that existing accessible FL systems could not meet.
These challenges include cross-platform mobile support (especially iOS),
accessible model deployment strategies, and fine-grain deployment control.
Therefore, building on top of Flower, we developed FedKit, an open-source FL
system tailored for cross-platform FL research on Android and iOS devices.
In the process, we developed a cross-platform and continuous model
deployment/training pipeline, and contributed to Flower's mobile support.
Our approach demonstrates how Flower's ubiquity even enables FL training and
aggregation across Android and iOS, while exploring the current limitations
of real-world mobile FL.

---

Federated learning (FL) on mobile devices has been a hot research topic because
of its huge potentials in harnessing end user data while preserving their
privacy.  At the FedCampus project, we built an FL platform to experiment
with nearly 100 real users' health data via their personal mobile devices
on a day-to-day basis.  However, most existing "mobile" FL systems merely
run simulations on desktop computers, while the ones that do run on mobile
devices suffer from various limitations.  For us, the important limitations
include the lack of iOS support, proprietary backend servers, and manual
model deployment.  Therefore, on top of Flower, we developed FedKit, an FL
system tailored for cross-platform FL research on Android and iOS devices.
We demonstrate deploying Python-based models, FL training on Android and iOS,
and model aggregation across platforms, all using FedKit.  We discuss the
challenges in FedKit's approach to addresses the aforementioned limitations.
FedKit is open-source, and much of our work has been upstreamed to Flower.
